VSO CSI driver documentation (#691)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v1.20.x/content/docs/deploy/kubernetes/csi/index.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault CSI provider for the Secrets Store CSI Driver
description: >-
  Learn how the Vault provider for the Secrets Store CSI Driver allows pods to consume Vault secrets using CSI volumes.
---

# Vault CSI provider for the Secrets Store CSI Driver

The Vault CSI Provider allows pods to consume Vault secrets using

> [Secrets Store CSI](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver) volumes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Secrets Store CSI](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver)
volumes. You can deploy the
[HashiCorp CSI driver](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/vso-csi) as part of your
Vault Secrets Operator instance.
```

> ~> For HashiCorp's CSI driver which can be deployed as part of the Vault Secrets Operator, 
> see the documentation for the [Vault Secrets Operator CSI driver](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/vso-csi).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
There's no need to make this a separate alert. We can fold it into the introduction

Reviewer: We want to avoid overloading pages with asides whenever possible, but a tip might make sense in this case. Let me think about it and add a suggestion tomorrow.

---
layout: docs

> page_title: Vault Secrets Store CSI Provider

Author: I'm a bit confused by all the uncapitalizing. These individual words aren't proper nouns, no, but they're the names of our offerings, just like an "agent" isn't a proper noun but we call it Vault Agent because that's the product name.

Kubernetes does not capitalize an individual CSI driver, because it's just a category of products. But the Secrets Store CSI [Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/) capitalizes it, because it's a specific, individual CSI driver product. In the same way as "zoo" is a noun but "Chicago Zoo" takes that noun and makes it part of the proper noun, my assumption is that we would do the same here with Vault Secrets Operator CSI Driver, Vault Secrets Store CSI Provider, etc.

Maybe this is a question for Product? @stevealmyHC Would you prefer the integration names being capitalized, or are you OK lower-casing them like is being suggested?

description: >-
  Learn how to consume Vault secrets using CSI volumes with the Vault provider
  for the Secrets Store CSI driver.
---

# Vault Secrets Store CSI provider

The Vault Secrets Store CSI provider allows pods to consume Vault secrets using
[Secrets Store CSI](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver) volumes. 
Alternatively, you can deploy HashiCorp's
[Vault Secrets Operator CSI driver](/vault/docs/platform/k8s/vso/csi) as part of your
Vault Secrets Operator installation.

> The Vault Secrets Store CSI provider is a fully supported component of HashiCorp Vault.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I know this was part of the original doc, but it's extraneous. We don't document anything in our product docs that *isn't* fully supported

~> The Vault Secrets Store CSI provider requires the [CSI Secret Store](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver)
Driver to be installed.

## Overview

> At a high level, the Secrets Store CSI driver allows users to create `SecretProviderClass` objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At a high level, the Secrets Store CSI driver lets you create `SecretProviderClass` objects.
```

This object defines which secret provider to use and what secrets to retrieve. When pods requesting CSI volumes

> are created, the Secrets Store CSI driver will send the request to the Vault Secrets Store CSI provider if the provider
> is `vault`. The Vault Secrets Store CSI provider then uses the specified `SecretProviderClass` and the service account of the pod to retrieve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are created, the Secrets Store CSI driver sends the request to the Vault Secrets Store CSI provider if the provider
is `vault`. The Vault Secrets Store CSI provider then uses the specified `SecretProviderClass` and the service account of the pod to retrieve
```
Style correction: write in active voice

> is `vault`. The Vault Secrets Store CSI Provider will then use Secret Provider Class specified and the pod's service account to retrieve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is `vault`. The Vault Secrets Store CSI provider then uses the specified  `SecretProviderClass` and the service account of the pod to retrieve
```
Style correction: write in active voice, avoid possessives

the secrets from Vault, and mount them into the pod's CSI volume.

The secret is retrieved from Vault and populated to the CSI secrets store volume during the `ContainerCreation` phase.
This means that pods will be blocked from starting until the secrets have been read from Vault and written to the volume.

### Features

> The following features are supported by the Vault Secrets Store CSI Provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault Secrets Store CSI provider supports the following features:
```
